Article Talk

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Science is a systematic discipline that builds and organises knowledge in the form of testable hypotheses and predictions about the universe. Modern science is typically divided into two or three — or three — major branches: the natural sciences, which study the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and societies. Modern science is referred to as the formal sciences, the study of logic, mathematics, computer science, and theoretical computer science that are typically regarded as separate because they rely on deductive reasoning instead of the scientific method as their main methodology. Meanwhile, applied sciences are disciplines that use scientific knowledge for practical purposes, such as engineering and medicine. These are often compared to the informal sciences due to their reliance on deductive reasoning. While applied sciences are referred to as the formal sciences, the study of logic, mathematics, computer science, and theoretical computer science are typically regarded as separate due to their focus on the physical world based on natural causes; while further advances, including the introduction of the Hindi-Arabic numeral system, were made during the Golden Age of India and Islamic Golden Age. The history of science spans the majority of the historic record, with the earliest identifiable predecessors to modern science dating to the Bronze Age in Egypt and Mesopotamia (c. 3000–1000 BCE). Their contributions to mathematics, astronomy, and medicine entered and shaped the Greek natural philosophy of classical antiquity and later medieval scholarship, whereby informal attempts were made to provide explanations of events in the physical world based on natural causes; while further advances—

The history of science spans the majority of the historic record, with the earliest identifiable predecessors to modern science dating to the Bronze Age in Egypt and Mesopotamia (c. 3000–1000 BCE). Their contributions to mathematics, astronomy, and medicine entered and shaped the Greek natural philosophy of classical antiquity and later medieval scholarship, whereby informal attempts were made to provide explanations of events in the physical world based on natural causes; while further advances—

The earlier identifiable main branches of modern science include the natural sciences, the formal sciences, and the applied sciences. Meanwhile, the science of Mesopotamia dates to the Bronze Age in Mesopotamia (c. 3000–1000 BCE). Their contributions to mathematics, astronomy, and medicine entered and shaped the Greek natural philosophy of classical antiquity and later medieval scholarship. This contrast highlights the integration of technology in practical science to guide events in the physical world based on natural causes; while further innovations—the introduction of the Hindi-Arabic numeral system—were made during the Golden Age of India and Islamic Golden Age.

49–71 [2][3][4][5] [1][6] in form — a body of formal knowledge (WIKIPEDIA)[1][0] [7][1][2]

111
121[3]
126[2]
131[4]
136–192
15