Science

Article   Talk

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Science is a systematic discipline that builds and organizes knowledge in the form of testable hypotheses and predictions about the universe. Modern science is typically divided into two — or three — major branches: the natural sciences, which study the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and societies. While referred to as the formal sciences, the study of logic, mathematics, computer science are typically regarded as separate because they rely on deductive reasoning instead of the scientific method as their main methodology. Meanwhile, applied sciences are disciplines that use scientific knowledge for practical purposes, such as engineering and medicine.

The history of science spans the majority of the historical record, with the earliest identifiable predecessors to modern science dating to the Bronze Age in Egypt and Mesopotamia, (c.3000–1200 BCE). Their contributions to mathematics, astronomy, and medicine entered and shaped the Greek natural philosophy of classical antiquity and later medieval scholarship, whereby formal attempts were made to provide explanations of events in the physical world based on natural causes; while further advances involve the application of the Hindu-Arabic numeral system, were made during the Golden Age of India and Islamic Golden Age.

[1]:49–71  
[2]:1–26, 15 [3]:183–192

For the journal, see Science (journal).  
For a topical guide, see Outline of science.  
For additional material, see [1][2][3][4][5]  

Some historical contexts are covered. Modern science can describe nature, understand phenomena, and utilize mathematical models. These developments include the contribution of different cultures, notably Egyptians, Mesopotamians, Greeks, and Indians. Contributions include geometry, trigonometry, astronomy, mathematics, and various scientific disciplines starting at various epochs.

Applied sciences generally require more practical applications, like those in engineering, applied mathematics, medical science, and technology development, similar to applied physics, applied chemical engineering, and applied ecology. These are distinct from formal sciences which adhere to the same empirical foundation across scientific disciplines.