Certainly! Here is the transcribed text:

```
Science
Tab

For the journal, see Science (outline). For a topical guide, see Outline of science. For the journal, see Science (outline). For a topical guide, see Outline of science. For the journal, see Science (outline). For a topical guide, see Outline of science. For the journal, see Science (outline).

Science is a systematic discipline that builds and organises knowledge in the form of testable hypotheses and predictions about the universe. Modern science is typically divided into two — or three — major branches, the physical world, and the social science, which study the physical world, and the social science, which study individuals and
theoretical societies. While referred to as the formal sciences, the study of logic, mathematics, and theoretical computer science are typically regarded as separate because they rely on deductive reasoning instead of the scientific method as their main methodology. Meanwhile, applied sciences are disciplines that use scientifically based and theoretical computer science to
develop mathematical knowledge, and mathematical, and herbal computer science are really separate, while other sciences are typically considered to be purely descriptive science with no reliance on deductive reasoning, respectively because they are called scientific without relying

The history of science spans the majority of the historical record, with the earliest identifiable predecessors to modern science dating to the Bronze Age in Egypt and Mesopotamia (c.3000–1200 BCE). Their contributions to mathematics, astronomy, and medicine entered and shaped the Greek natural philosophy of classical antiquity and later medieval scholarship, whereby formal attempts were made to provide explanations of
events in the physical world based on natural causes; while further advances, including the introduction of the Hindu–Arabic numeral system, were made during the Golden Age of India and Islamic Golden Age,1317–1312 [47]1133]1133–116 [3–93–2–12
Golden Age of India and Islamic Golden Age,13–1817]