Science  
For the journal, see [Outline of science]. For a topical guide, see [Outline of science]. For the journal, see [Outline of science]. For the topical guide, see [Outline of science]. For the journal, see [Outline of science]. Science is a systematic discipline that builds and organizes knowledge in the form of testable hypotheses and predictions about the universe. Modern sciences are typically divided into two – or three – major branches. The physical world, and the social sciences, which study the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and the physical world, and the social sciences, which study individuals and the physical world, and the social science, which study individuals and the physical world, which study

For the topic guide, see Outline of science. For the journal, see [Outline of science].
For the topical guide, see Outline of science.
For the article, see [Outline of science].