Science

Article  Talk [ edit ]

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


For the journal , see Science (journal) . For a topical guide , see Outline of science .

The word "science" comes from Latin: scientia ("knowledge") or sciens 
(" knowing ").[ 14 ] The term was used in at least two ways during its early period. In one sense, it refers to any systematic discipline that builds and organises knowledge in the form
of hypotheses about elements of nature.[note 2] Modern science is typically divided into six major branches: [39]

Mathematics (math) , which employs logic as a key component of reasoningscience . The latter three are often called natural sciences because they deal with material objects and physical phenomena, while the first two are social scienc es that study human beings[40] or thought,[15][note 3]
and so do not fit into this classification. However , computer science is also considered to be part of formal discipline . The term "natural philosophy" has been used as a description for earlier eras when the idea was prevalent 

Science ( systematic knowledge ) Science portal Logic · Mathematics Philosophy 
Modern era

In its original form, applied sciences were and are classified natural philosophies that study nature in all forms; this classification is still common among some scientists. For example , physicists[43] typically regard as "separate" because they rely on deductive reasoning instead of the scientific method 5607918b (en) science portal Logic · Mathematics Philosophy Modern era

For its original meaning, applied sciences are classified natural philosophies that study nature in all forms; this classification is still common among some scientists. For example , physicists[43] typically regard as "separate" because they rely on deductive reasoning instead of the scientific method 5607918b (en) science portal Logic · Mathematics Philosophy Modern era

The history 
of 

science spans
the majority  
Science and technology are not synonymous. The study of natural philosophy was popular in Europe from about公元前2,4 BCE until around公元3世纪(CE), when it gradually gave way to the emergence of modern科学（scientific）研究，which began with GalileoGalilei's work on motion.[ 57 ] Prior t 
The history spansthe majorityofthe historicalrecord,theearly science dates 

science spans the majorit y

Bronze Age in Egypt and Mesopotamia ( c.30,00 -12
BCE). Their contributions to mathematics , astronomy ,
and medicine include early versions of algebra,[ 58 ] geometry[ 
] calculus [94]
,and optics.[ note
 
Medieval Islamic scholars made major advances in science by translating Greek and Hellenistic texts into Arabic . The translation movement was centred on the House
of Wisdom at Baghdad duringthe Golden Age 

Golden Age