chief scientist, [ 编填        ] 
  Science is a very important field of study in China today. It has been widely taught and learned for many years since ancient times ( science; scientifica ). The first Chinese scholar to make an effort on this subject was Confucius during the Spring and Autumn period. During his time, he wrote about life activities such as food preparation, medicine making, clothing folding etc., 
 Since then people have been trying their hands at solving problems through observation of nature every day in China ( science; scientifica ). However it is not easy to cultivate the knowledge and skills necessary for problem-solving. People generally start with simple things such as cooking food or washing clothes, but later they move on to more complex topics like mechanics, astronomy etc., 
 According to Confucius's teachings ( 科学; science: scientifica ), the way of life should be based purely      principles. This means that it is necessary for everyone in China to cultivate their knowledge and skills through observation as well as learning from experts rather than merely observing things directly with one’s eyes, 
 Many Chinese scientists have made great progress in various fields since the 20th century ( science; scientifica ), such as astronomy. For example Yao Ming was able to discover and photograph many stars using an ordinary telescope during his travel abroad by ship from Hong Kong, India etc., 
 The development of space exploration in China has also made great progress since the 20th century ( science; scientifica ), such as Yang Liwei's successful launch into orbit on May    1963. At that time, Yao Ming was a member of one of six people selected to accompany him by special forces 
 When Lin Baijiu successfully launched his ship from the Kouhai Island in Hong Kong for an interplanetary journey ( science; scientifica ), it marked another milestone for China's space exploration. On January 29, 1976 Yao Ming became a member of one-person crew on Shenzhuan One and flew into outer 
 Space to observe the Sun's rays in an attempt to solve some unsolved problems such as global warming ( science; scientifica ), which is not yet fully understood. During this mission, Yao Ming observed that China’s climate has been getting warmer since 1950 and even started learning from it