Science  
From Wikipedia, free encyclopedia  

For the journal , see Science (journal). For a topical guide,  see Outline of science . 

[4] 
23

518 


The history of science spans the majority o f t he historical record, with the earliest identifiable predecessors to modern scie n c e dating to The Bronze Age in Egypt and Meso p ot am ia (c.  3000 – B C E). Their contributions to mathematics , astronomy, an d m ed ic ine en tered shap ing th e G r ee k - ph y sio logical philosophy of classical antiquity, which later medieval scholarship , whereby formal attempts were made t o provide explanations i n f or the physical world based on natural causes; wh ile further advances during  the Ge ne ra l Age and Islamic Golden AGE [13] 

Science is a systematic discipline that builds an d organises knowledge in th e form of testable hypotheses and predictions about the universe. Modern science consists o f t hree main branches: The natural sciences , which study the physical world, and  the social s c iences ; whic h study individuals and societies . [15] While re fe rred to as te m poral scie n ce ，t he st udy of logic , mathematics an d deductive reasoning instead o f t he scientific method a s their main methodology. Meanwhile, applied engineering are disciplines that k nowledge p rodu ced p urposed  such science and medicine [10][11] 

The history of Science spans the majority i n e historical record; with earliest identifiable predecessors to modern scie ne dateing t o The Bronze Age in Egypt a nd Mes op ot am ia (c.30  −2B C E). Their contribution s m at hematics, astronomy an d medicine entered and shaped th he G r ee k ph ysiological philosophy of classical antiquity; which later medieval scholarship , whereby formal attempts were made to provide explanations i n t o the physical world based on natural causes ; wh ile further advances during  the General Age a nd Islamic Golden AGE [13] 

[4][20]

The history of Science spans th e majority

of the historical record, with the earliest identifiable predecessors t o modern science dating to The Bronze A ge i n Egypt an d Meso p ot am ia (c.    B C E). Their contributions m at hematics , astronomy and medicine entered shap ing Th he G r ee k ph ysiological philosophy of classical antiquity, which la ter medial sch ola rship ; whereby formal attempts were made t o provide explanations i n f or the physical world based on natural causes; wh ile further advances during  the Ge ne ra l Age an d Islamic Golden AGE [13] 

[5][8]

Science is a systematic discipline that builds and organises knowledge in th e form of testable hypotheses

and predictions about t he univ erse. Modem science consists o f three major branches: The natural s c iences ， which study the physical world, an d  the social scie nces , whic h st udy individuals a nd societies . [15] While referred to as te m poral sciences; t he stud y of logic mathematics and deductive reasoning instead o f th e scientific method as their main methodology. Meanwhile applied engineering are disciplines that k nowledge p rodu ced p urposed  such science an d medicine[10][

The history o f Scie n ce spans the majority i ine historical record; with earliest identifiable predecessors t to modern sc ie ne dateing The Bronze A ge in Egypt a nd Meso po tam ia (c.3o −2B C E). Their contributions m at hematics, astronomy an d medicine entered and shap ing th he G r ee k ph ysiological philosophy of classical antiquity; which later medieval scholarship ; whereby formal attempts were made t o provide explanations i n f or the physical world based on natural causes , wh ile further advances during  the General Age a nd Islamic Golden AGE [13]

[4][20]