科学（ scientific、英: science）とは、世界に写る知識を検証可能な仮説と予測の形で表現される体系的な条約取り組みである。[1] 

現在の科学技术や常識は目指す自然現象、社会现象等もその一部が科学的研究する自然界由来の知的信息から構成されている（哲学的意味では）。

「 science」という言葉の用法については、「科 学」(探 呂) 的 解 説を 取 限 れたく 意 思 に 道 す。科学 ( scientific,英:science)[2]とは、世界に写る 知識や検証可能な仮説と予測の形で表現される体系的な条約取り組みである。

現在研究되고行 動する自然科学（物理学的学問、数学 的 学 問 ）は もし 自然 質点系を対象としている 。科学 是非が 理論 的 ド 念の 形 成 の必要 性と 機関 的 先 道 特 定 化で 寒期的 友接 了 回 在し、 scientific theory や science based on empirical observationを形成する。科学は数学的研究や社会科学研究行 傾向である。

[1]《The Britannica encyclopedia, Encyclopædia britannica》
「百科全書」 的 翻译 ：英語の学問的体系（ Encyclopedia of Science and Technology） 。 『 science: the scientific method is a systematic procedure for exploring observations about nature. The object of all experiments (especially physical ones) in this sense is to make an observation that can be verified by repeated testing under similar conditions, with the aim of finding underlying natural laws which will predict new phenomena .』（科学 的方法は自然の観測を探究するため systematic procedure で 定在した体系である 。 物理的 計算的研究も Science and Technology に属して いる。）

「 science as a way to understand the world」 （世界の理解 回路として知る学問）　科学 的な 知識を 拓展し、 実用的で 可視化する方法と捉える。

[2]《The Britannica encyclopedia, Encyclopedia of Science and Technology》 ： science is one way to understand the world. Scientific methods are based on observation — whether directly or indirectly by using a tool (仪器) 」 scientific method: systematic procedure for exploring observations about nature designed especially with an aim toward finding underlying natural laws which will predict new phenomena」

「科学」とは言葉を換えて、社会学 的な意味では science and technology（科学と技術） 。 言語の分野で用いられる表現 。（英：science as a way to understand the world）

[3]《The Britannica encyclopedia, Encyclopedia of Science》 ： scientific method: systematic procedure for exploring observations about nature designed especially with an aim toward finding underlying natural laws which will predict new phenomena. In this sense, science is one way among many by which we can learn and come to know things; its methods are those used in the fields such as mathematics or physics where knowledge of abstract relations between concepts (理论) has been obtained.

[4]《The Britannica encyclopedia, Encyclopedia of Science》 ： scientific law: a statement about natural phenomena that is always true. Scientific laws describe nature under specific conditions and can be proven by repeated testing; they differ from mathematical theorems in these respects」

「 science 」 的 翻译：自然の観測を 探求する systematic procedure designed especially with an aim toward finding underlying patterns which will predict new phenomena。社会的で実用的な 意義も持っている。

[5]《The Britannica encyclopedia, Encyclopedia of Science》 ： scientific theory: a statement about some aspect(s) or feature(ies)(of nature that is testable by experiment. Scientific theories are hypotheses in the process for which evidence has accumulated over time and many experts accept as probably true; they differ from mathematical statements because both cannot be proved mathematically」

「 science 」 的 翻译：自然の観測を 探求する systematic procedure designed especially with an aim toward finding underlying patterns. Scientific theories are hypotheses in the process for which evidence has accumulated over time and many experts accept as probably true.

[6]《The Britannica encyclopedia, Encyclopedia of Science》 ： scientific observation: a statement about nature made through sense organs or instruments that may be tested by others; it is contrasted with untested speculation」

「 science 」 的 翻译：自然の観測を 探求する systematic procedure designed especially with an aim toward finding underlying patterns. Scientific observations are statements of fact, but they must still be confirmed and supported.

[7]《The Britannica encyclopedia, Encyclopedia of Science》 ： scientific experiment: a test on some aspect(s) or feature(ies)(of nature that is done under strictly controlled conditions; it may involve measurement by instruments)

「 science 」 的 翻译：自然の観測を 探求する systematic procedure designed especially with an aim toward finding underlying patterns. Scientific experiments are tests of hypotheses about the natural world, using a variety of methods and procedures.

[8]《The Britannica encyclopedia, Encyclopedia of Science》 ： scientific hypothesis: proposed explanation for some aspect(s) or feature(ies)(of nature; it is testable by experiment)

「 science 」 的 翻译：自然の観測を 探求する systematic procedure designed especially with an aim toward finding underlying patterns. Scientific hypotheses are statements that propose possible explanations of the natural world, which can then be tested through experiments.

[9]《The Britannica encyclopedia, Encyclopedia of Science》 ： scientific law: a statement about nature derived from repeated observation and experiment; it is always true」

「 science 」 的 翻译：自然の観測を 探求する systematic procedure designed especially with an aim toward finding underlying patterns. Scientific laws are statements that describe consistent relationships between variables, based on extensive experimental evidence.

[10]《The Britannica encyclopedia, Encyclopedia of Science》 ： scientific theory: a statement about some aspect(s) or feature(ies)(of nature and its history; it is supported by large amounts of data)

「 science 」 的 翻译：自然の観測を 探求する systematic procedure designed especially with an aim toward finding underlying patterns. Scientific theories are comprehensive explanations for a set of phenomena, often incorporating multiple scientific laws.

[1]《The Britannica encyclopedia》 ：science as the pursuit of knowledge and truth about nature through observation and experiment。科学 的 な 知識を 拓展し、 実用的で可視化する方法と捉える。

「 science」とは言葉の意味では scientific method（scientific methods） 。 言語的研究 行列に属す為体系化的知的信息である。（英：science as a way to understand the world）

[2]《The Britannica encyclopedia》 ：the process of inquiry and reasoning based on observation, experimentation, evidence gathering，and logical argumentation。科学 的な